So let's create
in this lecture a slider shortcode.
So let's go to "Slick Slider" and this is a famous JavaScript slider.
And we want to allow users to be able to define some images in a shortcode and then this shortcode will
turn these images into a slider.
So let's take a look at this and let's go to the Github link.
And we need to install it using NPM so let's copy this. And in the plugin, in the command line,
in the plugin all right not in the theme, let's install this.
And also "--save". Now let's run "npm start" again.
So Slick Slider will need a DIV and you can pass some options to DIV using "data-slick" attribute. And
inside of this DIV we will have other DIVs.
And each one will represent a slide.
So what we need to do is we need to create a shortcode.
So let's call it "_themename_slider" and then we have two approaches to create the slider.
We might make it a self-closing tag and then give it an attribute called "images" and these images can
be a comma separated IDs string like
so. And then the shortcode, we can loop through these IDs and generate the images.
Or another approach and that's what we'll be using is to make it an enclosing shortcode so let's close it. And
the content of this enclosing shortcode will be other shortcodes and each one will represent a slide,ok? So
"_themename_" and then "slide".
So this will be one slide. And this can be self-closing.
So maybe each slide will have an image and this will be an ID.
So let's go to media and let's get some IDs for images.
So this one is 1691. So it will have an image and let's say it will also have a "caption".
So in the first approach we can only have a string that contains images' IDs.
But using this approach each single slide can contain other attributes like "caption" in this case.
So let's add another one and let's get a another image.
And let's remove the caption for this one.
Now let's go and create these shortcodes. So in our plugin in the lib or sorry in the includes. And
in the shortcodes folder I'm gonna create a new folder called "slider". And inside the slider let's create
a new file called slider.php.
And here we will define our shortcodes.
So let's open PHP and let's create our first shortcode.
So we call this one "_themename_slider" and the function with the same name.
And this function will always receive these three arguments.
And then like we did for the button we will extract() and then call shortcode_atts().
And add our attributes here.
So let's say, let's go to Slick Slider again.
And we need the shortcode to support some of these options for the slider.
So let's choose couple of options.
Right, maybe the "autoplay" option.
And default it to "false".
And there is an option called "arrows" and this will add next and previous arrows. And let's default it to
"false" also.
And then we'll pass the attributes and the shortcode which we called $tag here.
So let's call it $tag.
So this shortcode will be responsible for displaying the opening tags for the slider.
So let's go to Slick Slider and see what we should do.
We should create a DIV like this
and pass it the options.
So let's do that. Let's create a new variable. Let's call it $o for output. And then let's modify this to
"autoplay"
and "arrows". Not sure if it's called arrow or arrows, and it's "arrows".
And let's modify these strings.
So we need to escape this and this and we need to close.
This might be a bit confusing.
We need to close this string and then concatenate we'll replace this 4 and then concatenate again.
And open string
and close it and open it.
And we here will have the $arrows and here the $autoplay.
And we also need to escape these values.
So these will always be booleans so you can use a function called boolval() that will convert anything
to a boolean.
So this way we will make sure that these are booleans, right? And then le's close it. And let's return the output.
I want to make sure that we've done this string correctly.
So that's see now.
And we forgot to add our new shortcode in the index.php f or the plugin.
So let's now inspect after the button and great. As you can see we have a DIV with "data-slick".
And then we have "autoplay" and the "arrows".
We have a problem with the values.
So apparently booleans won't concatenate with the string.
I expected this to be "false" and "false" here. But it's a no problem,
we can remove the boolval() here and then write a small ternary expression.
If this is true then output a string "true", otherwise a string "false". And same here.
So now that we have "true" and "false" as strings. We should have them now in the HTML for the slider. And
here we have them. So now we have the shortcode that will output the opening DIV for the slider. Let's
in the next lecture create
the other shortcode that will be responsible for outputting one single slide.
So see you in the next lecture.